How do we report
what happened at a hospital?
Over a 3 year period, we calculate
the proportion of children treated at the hospital
who survived to at least 30 days after
their surgery: the survival rate.
As some hospitals will treat children with
more complex medical problems than other hospitals
we would not expect all hospitals
to have the same survival rate.
So it doesn't make sense to simply compare
one hospital's survival rate to another's.
Instead, we use the statistical formula
to calculate the predicted range of survival
for the children that hospital has treated,
which depends only on the complexity
of the medical problems of those children.
We then compare a hospital's survival rate
to its predicted range.
How do we interpret this?
If the survival rate lies in the dark blue area
(the predicted range), then there is no evidence
that the chances of survival of children at that
hospital were different from what was predicted.
If the survival rate turns out to lie in the
light blue area, this means there is some evidence
that the chances of survival at that hospital
were different from that predicted by the formula.
If the survival rate lies outside either blue area,
this means that there is strong evidence
that the chances of survival at that hospital
were different from that predicted by the formula.
If there is some, or strong, evidence
that chances of survival at a hospital
were lower than predicted, then the audit body,
the relevant national health service
and the hospital all work together to check
the data and take any appropriate actions.